README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.gatsbyjs.com/">
    <img src="https://www.gatsbyjs.com/Gatsby-Monogram.svg" alt="Gatsby logo" width="60" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.typescriptlang.org/">
    <img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Typescript_logo_2020.svg" alt="TypeScript logo" width="60" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://chakra-ui.com/">
    <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/chakra-ui/chakra-ui/main/logo/logo-colored@2x.png?raw=true" alt="Chakra UI logo" width="180" />
  </a>
</p>
<h1 align="center">
  Gatsby TypeScript Chakra UI Blog Starter
</h1>

<p align="center">
A modern, opinionated blog starter with Gatsby, TypeScript, and Chakra UI. Features elegant typography, responsive design, and system-aware dark mode.
</p>

## ✨ Features

- **Gatsby** — Fast, optimized websites with great SEO
- **TypeScript** — Type safety and better developer experience
- **Chakra UI** — Beautiful, accessible components with dark mode support
- **Blog-Focused** — Optimized for beautiful article presentation
- **Responsive Design** — Mobile-first design that works on all devices
- **System-Aware Dark Mode** — Automatically switches based on user preference
- **"Buy Me Coffee" Integration** — Support monetization for your content
- **SEO Optimized** — Meta tags, sitemaps, and robots.txt included

## 🚀 Quick start

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```shell
   git clone https://github.com/cloudy-native/gatsby-typescript-chakraui.git
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**

   ```shell
   cd gatsby-typescript-chakraui
   npm install
   ```

3. **Start the development server**

   ```shell
   npm run develop
   ```

4. **Open the source code and start editing!**

   Your site is now running at `http://localhost:8000`!

   The GraphQL explorer is available at `http://localhost:8000/___graphql`

## 🧐 Project Structure

```
.
├── content/                # Blog content files
│   └── blog/               # Blog posts with Markdown + frontmatter
├── public/                 # Built files (generated after build)
├── src/                    # Source code
│   ├── components/         # React components
│   │   ├── Header.tsx      # Site navigation header
│   │   ├── Footer.tsx      # Site footer with links
│   │   ├── Layout.tsx      # Main layout wrapper
│   │   └── BuyMeCoffeeButton.tsx # Support button
│   ├── pages/              # Page components
│   │   ├── index.tsx       # Homepage
│   │   ├── about.tsx       # About page
│   │   ├── 404.tsx         # 404 page
│   │   └── blog/index.tsx  # Blog listing page
│   ├── templates/          # Page templates for generated pages
│   │   ├── blog-post.tsx   # Full-featured blog post template
│   │   └── blog-post-simple.tsx # Minimal blog post template
│   └── theme/              # Chakra UI theme customization
│       └── index.ts        # Theme configuration
├── gatsby-browser.js       # Browser-specific configurations
├── gatsby-config.ts        # Gatsby configuration
├── gatsby-node.js          # Gatsby Node API implementations
├── gatsby-ssr.js           # Server-side rendering configurations
└── package.json            # Project dependencies and scripts
```

## 🎨 Theme Customization

This starter uses an opinionated theme with:

- **Color Mode**: System-aware dark mode that respects user preferences
- **Responsive Design**: Mobile-first approach with adaptive layouts

### Customize the Theme

Edit the theme in `src/theme/index.ts`:

```typescript
// Current theme configuration
const theme = extendTheme({
  config: {
    initialColorMode: "system",
    useSystemColorMode: true,
  },
  fonts: {
  },
  // Add custom colors, spacing, etc.
});
```

## 📝 Blog Content

Blog posts live in `content/blog/` as Markdown files with frontmatter. Each post should be in its own directory with an `index.md` file and any images used in the post.

Example blog post structure:
```
content/
└── blog/
    └── getting-started-with-gatsby-and-chakra-ui/
        ├── index.md
        └── hero-image.jpg
```

## 🧩 Main Components

- **Layout** - Common layout with header and footer
- **Header** - Navigation with theme toggle and mobile menu
- **Footer** - Site footer with important links
- **BuyMeCoffeeButton** - Support button for reader contributions

## 🚀 Deployment

### Build for production

```shell
npm run build
```

The build output will be in the `public/` directory, ready to be deployed to any static hosting service.

## 🎓 Learning Resources

- **[Gatsby Documentation](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/)**
- **[TypeScript Documentation](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/)**
- **[Chakra UI Documentation](https://chakra-ui.com/docs/getting-started)**

## 📝 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details. Attribution required.

## 📸 Screenshots

### Home Page (Light Mode)
![Home Page Light Mode](doc/images/home-page-light-mode.png)

### Home Page (Dark Mode)
![Home Page Dark Mode](doc/images/home-page-dark-mode.png)

### About Page
![About Page](doc/images/about.png)

### Blog Index
![Blog Index](doc/images/blog-index.png)

### Blog Post
![Blog Post](doc/images/blog-post.png)

Commit message:

Stage 3: coming together with refinements

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.gatsbyjs.com/">
    <img src="https://www.gatsbyjs.com/Gatsby-Monogram.svg" alt="Gatsby logo" width="60" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://www.typescriptlang.org/">
    <img src="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4c/Typescript_logo_2020.svg" alt="TypeScript logo" width="60" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://chakra-ui.com/">
    <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/chakra-ui/chakra-ui/main/logo/logo-colored@2x.png?raw=true" alt="Chakra UI logo" width="180" />
  </a>
</p>
<h1 align="center">
  Gatsby TypeScript Chakra UI Blog Starter
</h1>

<p align="center">
A modern, opinionated blog starter with Gatsby, TypeScript, and Chakra UI. Features elegant typography, responsive design, and system-aware dark mode.
</p>

## ✨ Features

- **Gatsby** — Fast, optimized websites with great SEO
- **TypeScript** — Type safety and better developer experience
- **Chakra UI** — Beautiful, accessible components with dark mode support
- **Blog-Focused** — Optimized for beautiful article presentation
- **Responsive Design** — Mobile-first design that works on all devices
- **System-Aware Dark Mode** — Automatically switches based on user preference
- **"Buy Me Coffee" Integration** — Support monetization for your content
- **SEO Optimized** — Meta tags, sitemaps, and robots.txt included

## 🚀 Quick start

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```shell
   git clone https://github.com/cloudy-native/gatsby-typescript-chakraui.git
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**

   ```shell
   cd gatsby-typescript-chakraui
   npm install
   ```

3. **Start the development server**

   ```shell
   npm run develop
   ```

4. **Open the source code and start editing!**

   Your site is now running at `http://localhost:8000`!

   The GraphQL explorer is available at `http://localhost:8000/___graphql`

## 🧐 Project Structure

```
.
├── content/                # Blog content files
│   └── blog/               # Blog posts with Markdown + frontmatter
├── public/                 # Built files (generated after build)
├── src/                    # Source code
│   ├── components/         # React components
│   │   ├── Header.tsx      # Site navigation header
│   │   ├── Footer.tsx      # Site footer with links
│   │   ├── Layout.tsx      # Main layout wrapper
│   │   └── BuyMeCoffeeButton.tsx # Support button
│   ├── pages/              # Page components
│   │   ├── index.tsx       # Homepage
│   │   ├── about.tsx       # About page
│   │   ├── 404.tsx         # 404 page
│   │   └── blog/index.tsx  # Blog listing page
│   ├── templates/          # Page templates for generated pages
│   │   ├── blog-post.tsx   # Full-featured blog post template
│   │   └── blog-post-simple.tsx # Minimal blog post template
│   └── theme/              # Chakra UI theme customization
│       └── index.ts        # Theme configuration
├── gatsby-browser.js       # Browser-specific configurations
├── gatsby-config.ts        # Gatsby configuration
├── gatsby-node.js          # Gatsby Node API implementations
├── gatsby-ssr.js           # Server-side rendering configurations
└── package.json            # Project dependencies and scripts
```

## 🎨 Theme Customization

This starter uses an opinionated theme with:

- **Color Mode**: System-aware dark mode that respects user preferences
- **Responsive Design**: Mobile-first approach with adaptive layouts
- **Theme Editor**: Interactive tool to customize your theme

### Customize the Theme

Edit the theme in `src/theme/index.ts`:

```typescript
// Current theme configuration
const theme = extendTheme({
  config: {
    initialColorMode: "system",
    useSystemColorMode: true,
  },
  fonts: {
  },
  // Add custom colors, spacing, etc.
});
```

### Using the Theme Editor

The theme editor provides an interactive way to customize your Chakra UI theme, including colors, typography, spacing, and more.

1. Access the editor at `/theme-editor`
2. Use the color pickers or extract colors from images
3. Customize typography, spacing, and border radius
4. Preview components with your custom theme
5. Export the theme configuration code

#### Google Fonts Integration

The theme editor supports Google Fonts integration. To use this feature:

1. Create a `.env` file in the project root (it's already in `.gitignore`)
2. Add your Google Fonts API key with both variable names:
   ```
   # Server-side variable
   GOOGLE_FONTS_API_KEY=your_api_key_here
   # Browser-accessible variable (GATSBY_ prefix is required)
   GATSBY_GOOGLE_FONTS_API_KEY=your_api_key_here
   ```
3. Restart the development server
4. The fonts will automatically load in the Typography tab

> **Note**: You can get a Google Fonts API key from the [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials). Enable the "Fonts API" in your Google Cloud project.
>
> **Important**: In Gatsby, environment variables that need to be accessible in the browser must be prefixed with `GATSBY_`. This is why we need both variables.

## 📝 Blog Content

Blog posts live in `content/blog/` as Markdown files with frontmatter. Each post should be in its own directory with an `index.md` file and any images used in the post.

Example blog post structure:
```
content/
└── blog/
    └── getting-started-with-gatsby-and-chakra-ui/
        ├── index.md
        └── hero-image.jpg
```

## 🧩 Main Components

- **Layout** - Common layout with header and footer
- **Header** - Navigation with theme toggle and mobile menu
- **Footer** - Site footer with important links
- **BuyMeCoffeeButton** - Support button for reader contributions

## 🚀 Deployment

### Build for production

```shell
npm run build
```

The build output will be in the `public/` directory, ready to be deployed to any static hosting service.

## 🎓 Learning Resources

- **[Gatsby Documentation](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/)**
- **[TypeScript Documentation](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/)**
- **[Chakra UI Documentation](https://chakra-ui.com/docs/getting-started)**

## 📝 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details. Attribution required.

## 📸 Screenshots

### Home Page (Light Mode)
![Home Page Light Mode](doc/images/home-page-light-mode.png)

### Home Page (Dark Mode)
![Home Page Dark Mode](doc/images/home-page-dark-mode.png)

### About Page
![About Page](doc/images/about.png)

### Blog Index
![Blog Index](doc/images/blog-index.png)

### Blog Post
![Blog Post](doc/images/blog-post.png)
